## Design for social

* After people learn to use a broken thing (1 week), they will hate you for fixing it
* Why comment when it will be lost?
   * Participation: ripple of pebble in lake
   * Personal marketing
   * Tribe behavior

---
   
## Performance budgets
* Budget as Browser experience: X requests, X size
* Budget as User experience: X seconds over X connection
* Style guides assist in this process - documentation is key.
* Vanilla's needs

---

## Modern layouts

* Shapes, CSS Grid, columns
* Flexbox (better than float!)
* Viewports
* Cautionary tale of Groups

---

## Consistently great UI

* Avoiding cognitive overload of presenting too much data
* Driving a user action with every detail of the page
* "Persuasion by force" by presenting huge volume of content
* Human connection and hand crafted ideas
* Nostalgia for the "old web" vs. the singularity of web designgreat UI
* "The final 10% is 90% of the 
* UIs: Inform, Persuage, or Connect

---

## Cohesive UX

* Avoiding the labels of "mobile" vs "tablet" etc - uses Jackson 5 to name sizes
* Inventory elements of UX and unify them as possible
* What if pinch & zoom refactored design? Gesture-enabled RWD

---

## Atomic Design

* Bootstrap syndrome: Lookalike issue, bloat, miss edge cases
* Atoms (tags) -> Molecules (functions) -> Organisms (areas) -> Templates -> Pages
* Interface inventory: doc UI across contexts, name things
* Collaboration and communication trumps process

---

## Content in Context Is King

* Time + geolocation = what do you need now? 
* Ordering content priority / hierarchy per time & location, not hiding it
* Capabilities - what if I'm super zoomed? Or can't hit small targets?
* Activity - velocity? what have you done?
* Can we design so you don't need to: open email; unlock phone; take out phone?
* User-declared filter is communicating importance - can the content be reorganized to emphasize that?

---

## Prototyping and Play

* code prototypes: codepen.io, jekyll, patternlab.io, or custom
* Get to code as soon as possible, but sketch first
* "Fidelity of prototype should match fidelity of your thinking"
* DON'T HOARD THE PROCESS: Web design is a team sport
* "A prototype is worth a thousand meetings / JIRA tickets"

